now it came to pass after these things
but Joseph was told indeed your father
is sick and he took with him his two
sons Manasseh and Ephraim and Jacob was
told look your son Joseph is coming to
you and Israel strengthened himself and
sat up on the bed then Jacob said to
Joseph god almighty appeared to me at
laws in the land of Canaan and blessed
me and said to me behold I will make you
fruitful and multiply you and I will
make of you a multitude of people and
give this land to your descendants after
you as an everlasting possession and now
your two sons Ephraim and Manasseh who
were born to you in the land of Egypt
before I came to you in Egypt are mine
as Reuben and Simeon they shall be mine
your offspring whom you beget after them
shall be yours they will be called by
the name of their brothers and their
inheritance but as for me when I came
from Paden Rachel died beside me in the
land of Canaan on the way when there was
but a little distance to go to II froth
and I buried her there on the way to II
fret that is Bethlehem and Israel saw
Joseph's sons who are these they are my
sons whom God has given me in this place
please bring them to me and I will bless
them
now the eyes of Israel but dim with age
so that he could not see and Joseph
brought them near him and he kissed them
and embraced them and Israel said to
Joseph I had not thought to see your
face but in fact God has also shown me
your offspring so Joseph brought them
from beside his knees and he bowed down
with his face to the earth and Joseph
took them both he frightened with his
right hand toward Israel's left hand and
Manasseh with his left hand toward
Israel's right hand and brought them
near him then Israel stretched out his
right hand and laid it on efrain's head
who was the younger and his left hand a
Manassas head guiding his hands
knowingly for Manasseh was the firstborn
and he blessed Joseph God before whom my
father's Abraham and Isaac walked the
God who has fed me all my life long to
this day the angel who has redeemed me
from all evil blessed the lads let my
name be named upon them in the name of
my father's Abraham and Isaac and let
them grow into a multitude in the midst
of the earth now when Joseph saw that
his father laid his right hand on the
head of Ephraim it displeased him so he
took hold of his father's hand to remove
it from Ephraim's head to Manasses head
and Joseph said to his father not so my
father for this one is the firstborn put
your right hand on his head but his
father refused I know my son I know he
also shall become a people and he also
shall be great but truly his younger
brother shall be greater than he and his
descendants shall become a multitude of
Nations so he blessed them that day by
you Israel will bless saying may God
make you as ephraim and as Manasseh and
thus he said if Ryan before Manasseh
then Israel said to Joseph behold I am
dying but God will be with you and bring
you back to the land of your father's
moreover I have given to you one portion
above your brothers which I took from
the hand of the amorite with my sword
and my bow
[Music]